# Virtual-Asch-Conformity-Study
The link below leads to the experience located on Simmer.io. The experience was built entirely in Unity3D using C#. The project was originally built (and completed) for virtual reality on the Oculus Quest headset. However, due to COVID-19, the experience was modified to work with WebGL as a web-based experience. The goal was to faithfully recreate the original Asch Conformity Experiment but with the addition of the Sternberg task in order to determine its effect on the level of conformity. With this said, there were 18 iterations total. For the first 6 iterations, participants were presented with no list. For the next 4 iteractions, participants were presented with a list size of 3. For the next 4, list size of 5. For the last 4, list size of 7.

Study data was organized into an Excel sheet, which included each user's answers for the graph lines and answers for the Sternberg task. Then, the number of times each user conformed in each list size was calculated. In this case, a conformity was considered when a user's answer matched that of the actors who gave incorrect answers. From here, each number in list size 0 was divided by 6 since there were 6 iterations of this list size. Each number in list sizes 3, 5, and 7 were divided by 4 since there were 4 iterations of each of those sizes. This was done in order to acquire percentages of each. Then, each resulting number was compiled into a table to perform an ANOVA statistical test to analyze variance. Since the P-value was less than 0.05, there was a significant difference between the groups of numbers. However, since this did not tell which groups in particular, 6 post-hoc t-Tests were conducted. The following groups were compared: 0 vs. 3, 0 vs. 5, 0 vs. 7, 3 vs. 5, 3 vs. 7, and 5 vs. 7. Then, in order to account for any possible errors in comparisons, a Bonferroni correction was made on the significance level. The original value of 0.05 was divided by 4 since there were 4 different groups. To properly check the results, this number was compared to the P(T<=t) two-tail value. If the P(T<=t) two tail value was less than 0.0125, then there was indeed a significant difference between the two groups compared. After observing results, there were significant differences between the following groups: 0 vs. 3, 0 vs. 5, 0, vs. 7, 3 vs. 5, and 5 vs. 7. The only comparison that did not show a significant difference is 3 vs. 7, as the value of P(T<=t) was greater than 0.0125. 

Overall, it was evident that the Sternberg task affected conformity in participants, at least up to list size 5. At list size 7, the level of conformity decreased. This could be due to study fatigue, as participants might not have wanted to continue remembering the list at that point, considering how large it was becoming.

Additional details about the study can be provided upon request. Feel free to email migrepereira@gmail.com.

https://simmer.io/@migrepereira/virtual-asch-conformity
